[INVALID] feature/middleware: add routerchecker middleware (#1893)
dapr/docs: daprdocs/content/en/reference/components-reference/supported-middleware/middleware-routerchecker.md

---
type: docs
title: "RouterChecker http request routing"
linkTitle: "RouterChecker"
description: "Use routerchecker middleware to block invalid http request routing"
aliases:
- /developing-applications/middleware/supported-middleware/middleware-routerchecker/
---

> The routerchecker [HTTP middleware]({{< ref middleware.md >}}) checks the legitimacy of http request routing, that prevents illegal routers from entering dapr cluster, and at the same time prevents a large number of such requests from affecting the view of observable data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The RouterChecker HTTP [middleware]({{< ref middleware.md >}}) component leverages regexp to check the validity of HTTP request routing to prevent invalid routers from entering the Dapr cluster. In turn, filtering out bad requests reduces noise in the telemetry and logs data.
```

## Component format

> In the following definition,  the http request router is set to  `^[A-Za-z0-9/._-]+$`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following definition,  the HTTP request RouterChecker is set to validate against `^[A-Za-z0-9/._-]+$`:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: dapr.io/v1alpha1
kind: Component
metadata:
  name: routerchecker 
spec:
  type: middleware.http.routerchecker
  version: v1
  metadata:
  - name: rule
    value: "^[A-Za-z0-9/._-]+$"
```

> For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an example, the above definition would result in the following PASS/FAIL cases:
```

```shell
PASS /v1.0/invoke/demo/method/method
PASS /v1.0/invoke/demo.default/method/method
PASS /v1.0/invoke/demo.default/method/01
PASS /v1.0/invoke/demo.default/method/METHOD
PASS /v1.0/invoke/demo.default/method/user/info
PASS /v1.0/invoke/demo.default/method/user_info
PASS /v1.0/invoke/demo.default/method/user-info

FAIL /v1.0/invoke/demo.default/method/cat password
FAIL /v1.0/invoke/demo.default/method/" AND 4210=4210 limit 1
FAIL /v1.0/invoke/demo.default/method/"$(curl
```

## Spec metadata fields

| Field | Details | Example |
|-------|---------|---------|

> | rule | http request routing regexp | `^[A-Za-z0-9/._-]+$`|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| rule | the regexp expression to be used by the HTTP request RouterChecker | `^[A-Za-z0-9/._-]+$`|
```
